Statistics is a branch of mathematics that deals with collecting, organizing, analyzing, interpreting and presenting data.
Statistics is used in multiple disciplines such as physics or biology in order to analyze and draw conclusions on experimental data.
Social Sciences also apply statistics in order to study and understand human behavior and economic trends.

The difference between Descriptive Statistics and Inferential Statistics is that the former is concerned with summarizing and describing data while the latter is used to make conclusions on a larger set based on the sample.


Population in statistics refers to a set of objects to describe and draw conclusions on while a Sample is a subset of the population for the purpose of more focused analysis.
Sampling is also done to make data collection more efficient and cost-effective.

An Attribute is a feature of a statistical unit in the population or sample, they can be quantitative or qualitative.
A Variable, on the other hand, is a specific measurement that varies from one element to another.
Variables are categorized based on the nature of the data they provide by their Level of Measurement.

A Dataset is the result of a collection of data. It's usually displayed as a matrix where each row represents a unit and each column represents a characteristic.

Sampling methods are techniques used to select a sample from a larger population.
The main sampling methods are:
    Random Sampling:
        In Random Sampling each element in the population has an equal and independent chance of being selected for the sample.
        It's used to eliminate bias and ensures that the sample is representative of the population.

    Stratified Sampling:
        It involves dividing the population into subgroups based on certain characteristics.
        Random samples are then drawn from each subgroup in proportion to their size in the population.
        It ensures that each subgroup is adequately represented in the sample.

    Cluster Sampling:
        Cluster sampling divides the population into clusters, and then a random sample of clusters is selected.
        All elements within the selected clusters are included in the sample.

    Convenience Sampling:
        Convenience sampling involves selecting elements that are easy to access or readily available.

    Snowball Sampling:
        Snowball sampling is used for hard-to-reach or hidden populations.
        It starts with one or a few participants who, in turn, refer additional participants.


Experimental designs are structured approaches to conducting scientific experiments to investigate the effects of one or more independent variables on a dependent variable.
Some examples are:
    Pre-Post Test Design:
    In this design, data is collected from the same group of subjects before and after an experimental treatment.

    Post-Test Only Design:
    This design involves collecting data from two separate groups: one that received the treatment and one that did not.

    Controlled Experiment:
    In a controlled experiment, the researcher manipulates one or more independent variables and observes their effects on a dependent variable.